---
title: My Thoughts on Internet Search
description: A reflection on the state of search engines today and why I switched to Kagi.
pubDate: 2025-03-11T00:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - writing
  - opinion
  - internet-search
draft: false
featured: true
authors:
  - name: Tanuj Ravi Rao
    url: 'https://tansanrao.com'
---
This post is inspired by Steph Ango’s excellent blog, “[Quality software
deserves your hard-earned cash](https://stephango.com/quality-software).” You
should definitely give it a read. Also, just to be clear—this isn’t an ad. It
may sound like one, but I’m just a really happy customer who wants to share
something I genuinely appreciate. With that said, let’s kick things off with
some background on _Internet Search_.

It may not be obvious at first, but [Google Search is
dying](https://dkb.blog/p/google-search-is-dying). Search results are cluttered
with ads, affiliate-marketing-filled listicles, and AI-generated slop. I used
to append keywords like _Reddit_ or _Stack Overflow_ just to get anything
meaningful to show up on the first page. As the blog post above points out,
“serving ads creates misaligned incentives for search engines.” You can’t
simultaneously provide the best search results _and_ optimize for the highest
number of ad clicks. As a public company with an ad-based revenue model, Google
is legally required to prioritize the latter.

I think part of Google’s continued dominance is that it’s so ingrained in our
lives, we tend to overlook its flaws and adapt our behavior to compensate for
them. Another major reason is that, historically, Google’s competitors have
been even worse.

Everyone pays for search. The difference is whether you’re paying with
attention, time, private data—or your wallet ([The real cost of "free"
search](https://help.kagi.com/kagi/why-kagi/why-pay-for-search.html)). I’m a
[Kagi](https://kagi.com) convert. I switched from Google Search to DuckDuckGo
in early 2023, then to Kagi this new year. I first heard about Kagi through
[Kev Quirk’s blog post](https://kevquirk.com/blog/my-thoughts-on-kagi-search).
For those unfamiliar, Kagi has a novel business model: you periodically
exchange your money for a service. Instead of monetizing users through
advertising and affiliate marketing, Kagi charges you a monthly fee.[^1]

I have many thoughts on the state of search today and the general
enshittification of "free" products, but that's a topic for another day. Kagi’s
value proposition was immediately appealing: _search as a service I can pay
for_. I was skeptical at first, but Kagi’s search quality blew me away. I tried
their free 100-search trial, burned through it in four days, and immediately
saw the difference. In fact, I realized I couldn’t even recall the layout of
Kagi’s results page—because I wasn’t spending time there. My _ad hoc_ searches
were perfectly answered by the first result. I clicked, got what I needed, and
moved on.

I judge a search engine by two things: how quickly I get what I want and the
quality of the experience along the way. The more I have to tweak my original
search, click through multiple results, or dig through pages, the worse my
experience.

When testing a new search engine, people often input casual queries and judge
it based on the results. But that doesn’t tell the whole story. That’s why I
make it my default search engine for a full month (or until I get
frustrated—whichever comes first). The true test is when I’m working on
something and need a quick answer. That’s when I really know whether a search
engine is working for me, and boy does Kagi deliver!

[^1]: Unthinkable! You can run a successful business without burning through
    millions of VC dollars?

